Mithril update 2025-06-18 (#611)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2025-06-18-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2025-06-18-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

> This week, the Mithril team released the `2524.0` distribution. This version supports Cardano node v.10.4.1 and introduces a new Mithril client CLI command for converting UTXO-HD ledger state snapshots. It also includes various bug fixes and improvements.
> 
> The team completed the first phase of the switch to binary encodings, and they kept working on the second phase of the refactoring of the standard library. They implemented a new command in the client CLI to verify an existing Cardano database with Mithril. They also worked on implementing the publisher and consumer for the DMQ network using the `n2c local message submission` and `n2c local message notification` mini-protocols from the Pallas library.
> 
> Finally, they enhanced the ledger state snapshot converter in the client CLI, and continued refactoring the STM cryptographic library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team released the `2524.0` distribution. This version supports Cardano node v.10.4.1 and introduces a new Mithril client CLI command for converting UTXO-HD ledger state snapshots. It also includes various bug fixes and improvements.

The team completed the first phase of the switch to binary encodings and continued working on the second phase of the standard library refactoring. They also implemented a new command in the client CLI to verify an existing Cardano database using Mithril. Additionally, they worked on implementing the publisher and consumer for the DMQ network, using the `n2c local message submission` and `n2c local message notification` mini-protocols from the Pallas library.

Finally, they enhanced the ledger state snapshot converter in the client CLI and continued refactoring the STM cryptographic library.
```
